Added the Getting Started guide (#182)
ethereum-optimism/community-hub: src/docs/users/getting-started.md

---
title: Getting Started with Optimistic Ethereum
lang: en-US
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }}

## Why use Optimistic Ethereum?

> The Optimistic Ethereum scaling solution lets you run transactions, similar to Ethereum, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Optimistic Ethereum network lets you send transactions, similar to Ethereum, but
```

with two important advantages:

* Near-instant transaction finality. You know almost immediately if your transaction took place
  or not.

> * Much lower transaction fees. L1 gas cost only affects the cost to write the transaction to L1

Reviewer: I think this is too deep into the weeds. I would just say that transaction fees are between 10x-100x cheaper than fees on mainnet L1 Ethereum.

Reviewer: I do like linking to the grafana though to give people a sense of the current fees

  for security purposes, which is **a lot less** than the cost of running the transaction on L1. 
  When Optimistic Ethereum is not congested, the gas price is 0.001 Gwei. [For the current gas price,
  see here](https://public-grafana.optimism.io/d/9hkhMxn7z/public-dashboard?orgId=1&refresh=5m).

> 

Reviewer: The third advantage is decentralization. "All transactions are posted to L1 Ethereum, inheriting the strong security guarantees of Ethereum"

## Depositing assets

> 

Reviewer: I would make a note that users must first acquire assets on L1 Ethereum. We should link out to a guide for people to purchase ETH via CEX and then migrate to a Metamask Wallet if they do not have assets on L1 Ethereum yet.

Guide that we link out to should include: 
Purchase ETH through any centralized Exchange, some examples being Coinbase, Gemini, Binance. They will then need to set up a wallet, then withdraw ETH from CEX to your wallet.

Before you can use assets (Ether, ERC-20 tokens, etc) on Optimistic Ethereum you need to deposit

> them using [a bridge](/docs/users/apps.html#gateways-and-bridges). For depositing ETH, the best

Reviewer: ```suggestion
them from Mainnet Ethereum using [a bridge](/docs/users/apps.html#gateways-and-bridges). For depositing ETH, the best
```

mechanism is [our own gateway](https://gateway.optimism.io/).

1. Log on to your wallet.
1. [Browse to the gateway](https://gateway.optimism.io/).
1. Click **CONNECT**, select your wallet type, and approve the connection in the 
   wallet itself if asked.
1. Make sure the form is correct:

   A. **Deposit** is selected

   B. From **MAINNET**

   C. The amount is possible. Click **MAX** to see the maximum amount you can
      deposit (after accounting for transaction costs), and if relevant enter
      a lower amount.

   D. The asset is **ETH**.
   

>    <img src="../../assets/docs/users/getting-started/deposit.png" alt="Deposit form" width="50%">

Reviewer: I would strongly prefer to have this be a gif or a sequencer of screenshots with outline boxes instead. The A, B, C, and D are not beginner friendly.

1. Click **DEPOSIT**.
1. Click **DEPOSIT** again to confirm.
1. Confirm the transaction in the wallet, wait until the transaction is confirmed and the ETH
   deposited to Optimistic Ethereum.

> 

Reviewer: Something we're missing here is "Switching your wallet to connect to Optimstic Ethereum": see https://chainid.link/?network=optimism. A TODO in the future is to have a tutorial page that shows how to connect to Optimistic Ethereum on different top wallets, since many other wallets like Coinbase wallet allow you to actually select the network in your settings

Author: I already tell them this will happen (step 6) because the app asks for the network switch. I assume they are using the same wallet they used initially, so if we're going to explain this more deeply we should do it in the Uniswap section, step 2. In Metamask you just need to approve it.

How about we publish this as-is and I'll write a "how to connect your wallet to Metamask" tutorial, probably on Monday?

## Applications

Optimistic Ethereum supports [a large and growing list of 
applications](https://community.optimism.io/docs/users/apps.html). To tell your wallet to
change to Optimistic Ethereum click **Withdraw** in the gateway and confirm the network
switch in the wallet.

### Uniswap <img src="../../assets/logos/uniswap.png" align="right" width="50px">

Uniswap lets you swap between assets. It is currently the most commonly used
Open Ethereum application, so here are step by step directions to let you
see that applications are used the same way they are on mainnet.

1. Browse to the [Uniswap application](https://app.uniswap.org/#/swap).
1. Click **Connect to a wallet** and confirm in the wallet. If necessary, switch the
   network in the wallet to **Optimism**.
1. Select:

   A. The token you give

   B. The token you get back

   C. Type an amount (of either token)

>    <img src="../../assets/docs/users/getting-started/uniswap.png" alt="Uniswap form" width="50%">

Reviewer: Same note as the others would prefer if this was a Gif or sequencer of images.

1. Click **Swap**.
1. Click **Confirm Swap**.
1. Confirm the transaction in the wallet.
1. After the transaction is executed, browse to [Etherscan for Optimistic 
   Ethereum](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/) and enter your address. Confirm
   you now have the correct amount of the new token.   

   <img src="../../assets/docs/users/getting-started/etherscan.png" alt="Etherscan with result" width="50%">   

## Withdrawing assets

The Optimism gateway takes seven days to withdraw back to mainnet, because it needs to support
verification challenges. So if the asset type is supported on the other bridges (either
[Hop](https://app.hop.exchange/send?sourceNetwork=optimism&destNetwork=mainnet&token=USDC) or
[cBridge](https://cbridge.celer.network/#/)) it is faster, and often cheaper, to use them. In 
this tutorial we use Hop.

> 1. Browse to [Hop.Exchange](https://app.hop.exchange/send?sourceNetwork=optimism&destNetwork=mainnet&token=USDC).

Reviewer: Glad we're using hop here!

1. Select:
   
   A. Asset type

   B. Source network (if you are withdrawing, this is **Optimism**)

   C. Amount to withdraw (or **MAX**)

   D. Destination network

>    <img src="../../assets/docs/users/getting-started/hop.png" alt="Hop form" width="50%">

Reviewer: Again would prefer if this was a Gif or sequencer of images. Not a huge fan of the A,B,C,D
